Shahi Mughlai Chicken Korma is a rich, creamy and delicious recipe from the royal kitchens of Mughals. This is one of the most popular recipe and you find it as a star recipe in any restaurant which specialises in Mughlai Cuisine. Mughlai Cuisine is always known for its aroma, taste, flavour and unique blend of spices. Unveiling the magic spice tale, to seduce your taste buds though this Shahi Mughlai Chicken Korma.
Korma in Mughlai Cuisine is often referred to thick and creamy gravy-based curries. The creaminess always come from nuts like almonds, cashews, chironji, etc. The spiciness in the recipe comes from cloves, cinnamon, etc. Every korma recipe is different in Mughlai Cuisine; the choice of spices and nuts totally depends on the main ingredient. Mughlai Chicken Korma is often served with naan, paratha or roti. This korma also tastes best when served with flavoured rice like Jeera Rice, Ghee Rice, Bagara Khana, Coconut Rice, etc. You can even serve this with plain white rice.Thoroughly wash chicken pieces and pat them dry.
In a pan, on low flame dry roast almonds and cashews for 4-5 minutes. Remove and set aside.
Heat oil and fry sliced onions until they turn light brown. Drain and add this to mixer jar along with dry roasted almonds and cashews. Make a thick fine paste by adding little water.
Remove this into a bowl and add red chili powder, turmeric powder, roasted coriander powder, ginger-garlic paste, curd and salt. Mix well.
To this add chicken pieces and mix well. Using your hand (wear glove, if sensitive to spices) rub the chicken pieces to get coated with masala. Cover and set aside for 30-60 minutes.
{Always remember, the more the marination time, the tastier the curry
In a heavy bottom vessel, add oil (you use the oil in which you fried onions) and to this add bay leaf, cardamom, cloves and cinnamon stick.
Fry for a minute and remove the spices (bay leaf, cardamom, clove and cinnamon) from oil. Now add marinated chicken and fry on high by stirring for 5-6 minutes.
Add ¾ cup of water and cover with a lid. Cook on low flame for 25-30 minutes by stirring occasionally. Sprinkle garam masala and turn off the flame.
Leave the curry on stove for 10 minutes before opening the lid. Garnish with fresh minced coriander leaves and serve warm with roti or rice.
Add love to make this Shahi Mughlai Chicken Korma taste ‘Yummy’.